welcome to slash forward
in this video we're going to figure your
odds against the monsters from the 2002
creature feature
they hit that like button if you've been
marked we're forming a support group
to start i'll unpack the storyline to
see what we can learn let's get to it
we open on a young boy calling for his
mama due to a thunderstorm
he delicately broaches the topic of
sleeping in her bed you're almost six
billy
why can't you act like more of a man boy
in fairness he does tell her that they
come for him in the dark as a
consolation she does a quick monster
check and then gets back to her me time
downstairs
as young billy drifts off to sleep but
then wakes up shortly thereafter with
the sense that there's a presence in the
room
some strange phenomena has him calling
for his mommy and pulling the covers
over his head as something unseen crawls
around
outside whatever it is waits until he's
bored enough to pop out again
and then it drags him under flash
forward 19 years to the big city we
watch julia just
dominating the mean streets on her
single speed and learn
via answering machine exposition that
she's a well-liked intelligent
woman about town she takes a break from
her dissertation to grace paul with her
presence at their favorite grunge bar
he uses the old push-pull flirting
technique complimenting her a little and
then putting her down a little just to
keep her intrigued
she then goes hard on the pool table
winning a double or nothing single
pocket bet
an obvious precursor to boudoir
shenanigans unfortunately they get back
to paul's place to find his burn out
stoner friends straight
chilling on the couch they push through
this but then are interrupted by
a call julia is too important not to
answer
but finds out it's just her old friend
billy looking for a shoulder to cry on
she goes to him but paul makes sure that
she's aware that
he can only wait so long she arrives at
the diner barely recognizing her haggard
greasy pal
he's come to her because as kids they
both suffered night terrors
he claims these events marked him and
that the entities responsible are back
now to take him
since he's all grown up and juicy as
hell he warns her that babies
just know so she notices disturbed
children or
flickering lights she should keep moving
there may be others who are afflicted
but his research has hit a dead end and
he's at the end of his rope mentally so
he takes extreme action to drive out the
fear
she turns in for the night at paul's
place but is awoken that evening by a
phone call
on the other end of the line is just
some gobbledygook so she wanders off to
see if paul's in the shower
turns out it's just a ghost shower
that's possibly related to general
plumbing issues then the lights begin to
flicker and behind the mirror a gateway
to an oily hellscape the revelation
causes her tremendous distress that
escalates into a violent attack
which she cannot remember afterward at
billy's funeral she meets his old
college roomies sam and terry who have
absolutely nothing to offer at this time
well you know he was he was taking
prozac i guess it didn't work
let's take it easy so she heads upstairs
to peruse billy's research and battery
collection
terry joins her here to try to smooth
things over by revealing that they
connected with billy at school due to
also having a history of childhood night
terrors
the thread that binds them all on the
way home julia's spoken word jam mix
starts skipping
[Music]
then from the darkness some sort of
slinky dog beast hops out at her forcing
her off the road when the electricals
then crap out completely she gives her a
once-over and starts yanking on some
wires
the light from which seems to spook a
critter nearby the sound of this drives
her back into the car where a vision of
billy startles her right into the path
of a passing box truck
this must have run off the creatures
because her ute then fires right back up
and soon she's jamming out to some
classic early 2000s
butt rock
[Applause]
[Music]
she gets to paul's place before he has a
chance to put up his mature facade
and it pisses her right the hell off to
see him drinking with the boys
i mean it's not even saturday she tries
to relay her trauma about
possibly hitting something but she's not
sure what and causing
unknown damage to her car maybe but he
points out that he's been pulling dead
bodies out of mangled vehicles all week
in the real world
and deserves to blow off some steam
later terry and sam swing by to drop off
billy's diary to see if julia can make
any sense of it it's mostly just
ramblings about strange
somethings that lurk in the dark due to
their fear of the light it's also
revealed here that they've all been
having recurrences of their night
terrors since billy's passing
julia brushes this off as a natural
reaction to the stress
but recognizing that julia doesn't
remember the severity of what they went
through terry tells the story of the
time she woke
up from a childhood night terror to
realize that demon she had stabbed in
the ass
was actually her dad who she stabbed in
the eye so these feelings returning is
no small thing
looking to reconnect with this she goes
to visit dr booth her old childhood
therapist
he dropped some basic info about night
terrors for our benefit since julia is
completing a dissertation in psychology
and suggests recent stresses may be
causing her flare-up since he don't give
away the goods for free he suggests an
official follow-up session to work
through this
once home julia heads to the dark dank
storage basement of her building to
retrieve a box and sidestep a creeper
meanwhile we circle back to sam making
art i guess while terry sits on the
couch picking at her weeping leg wound
after sam leaves to go get some fresh
air she's barely able to get back to
diddling her leg before she hears a
rustling noise
thinking she caught a fat rat she checks
the duct only to see that it got away
with a free snack
then for some reason she sits in there
flicking her lighter until she gets it
to fire up just in time to startle away
some sort of something we then learn
julia was pulling some old tapes of her
sleep studies which really hits her in
her feelings bone as she watches her
young self scream in terror
she decides instead to get back to her
dissertation defense
but is soon lured away again by the
softer sciences
she pours over the information working
to unravel the mysteries contained
inside her own brain right up until
bedtime this we learn also happens to be
the perfect time to hit the pool so
terry gets herself
rinsed off and leaks into the shower
before hitting her laps in solitude
right up until the lights go out
recognizing she's not alone she swims
out of the pool and ducks into the
locker room where she stands around
until a creature much larger than the
one from the air vent comes for her
julia then wakes up suddenly remembering
she has to finish her defense
unfortunately it's morning so she flips
the switch to go mode and starts serving
up
knowledge to these intellectual fat cats
in their ivory tower it's all going
really well until she forgets some of
her talking points and completely falls
apart
at home paul leaves a message insisting
that he wants to know how things went
i'm gonna harass you until you call me
back
classic paul so when the phone rings
again she jumps right up to grab it but
is surprised to hear sam
he invites her to what is now his
bachelor pad and lets her know that
terry has gone missing
in response he's been devouring billy's
old diary and says that billy thinks he
was taken to their world and marked as a
child
the reappearance of the mark coincided
with their return he suspected they were
tracking him in some way and pulled a
foreign object from his wound
now sam has a mark that's similar to
terry's mark and your boy
is scared later at her session julia
tries striking up a casual conversation
with a child
where's your mom heaven and she learns a
valuable life lesson
sarah confirms she's also aware of some
unknown entity coming for her to eat her
and only light seems to keep they
away julia reveals these learnings to dr
bloom insisting this is not emotional
trauma
it's a true physicality but he suggests
she worked through the case
as a professional and she basically does
his job for him
unraveling the constructs in her mind
that make her the way she is
she then submits to a brief exam from
paul to verify if she has a mark that's
emerged when nothing is found she goes
ahead and lets her guard down a little
back at the studios sam starts hearing
noises and we watch as the heat
wafts up to pop his sprinklers he thinks
better of rushing out which is smart
because there's a monster approaching
from the hallway and looking for an
alternative he gives up a good thing
with the window and instead uses the
elevator which ends up being a final
destination style death drop to the
bottom he survives this but
is not spared then after some mediocre
sex and a fresh humiliation
julia heads home where she discovers
from the news that the city is suffering
from a series of rolling blackouts
they seem to be already affecting her in
her apartment
localized inside her closet where she
peers in to find that she has a monster
problem
after running out and entering a sketchy
bathroom she realizes she never checked
past her hairline
sure enough there's a sore there and
following the hints from billy's diary
she
gets up in it to see what she can find
and yeah
she pulls out a tracer which they don't
seem to actually need to locate their
prey
so there she runs immediately to paul to
whom she describes the events and the
foreign objects she found
which she didn't keep as evidence and as
she rambles he makes a quick assessment
of her mental state before slipping her
one of his patented relaxation roofies
rather than trusting him with her
unconscious body she instead heads for
the comforting embrace of the subway the
heartbeat of the city
so vital and full of life except at
closing time so she hops on a passing
train which then stops about 50 feet
away
she gets out and tries to follow the
lights but gets tackled by some monsters
luckily the train comes back online
scaring them off unluckily it then
slowly rolls away from her
casting her back into darkness she
proceeds now through the tunnels
following whatever light sources she can
find for temporary reprieve until she is
eventually attacked again
this time a train passes but it doesn't
scare the creatures off she manages to
escape on her own
and confused by the rules of the movie
she makes a final attempt to get to
street level
unfortunately she is dragged down and
surrounded by an
unreasonable quantity of monsters she
manages to find a sizeable shard of
glass and begin slashing at anything
that moves
which ends up being a cadre of subway
workers on their break
one of whom takes his chance to tee off
on her face like a true american hero
julia wakes up screaming to find paul
and dr booth both there
trying to calm her and get her back into
bed for some much-needed rest
as she goes to stare at them from the
window we find that she's locked up in a
mental ward
then her window breaks and dr booth
returns with an orderly to find that
she's apparently escaped a locked room
leaving no trace behind but we see that
she's actually trapped behind an
invisible wall
inside the dark realm where she has
apparently become food to fuel their
lives and oily bodies
with that now established let's get to
the question of whether you could
survive this ordeal
it's not entirely clear what the
mechanism of their involvement is here
in terms of how they choose people and
why however once they get their claws in
you it seems
unlikely that there's a chance to come
out on top while we never see them
really do much other than startle
children and jump
out at folks it is implied by sarah that
their intent is to eat you
so the stakes for getting caught are
maxed out given that we never see anyone
damage any of them so we have no idea
how resilient the monsters are
regardless they are aliens two level
mindless swarmers
their sheer volume and ability to drag
you into the nether realm would put a
severe damper on any intent one may have
to go on
living a full and happy life beside that
there are other indications that these
creatures are full-on manifestations of
the mind when julia wakes up in her
hospital room at the end there's a cork
board on the wall that seems to have
personal effects with the closet
essentially empty and no other
indication that there's a roommate it
would imply that the personals belong to
her
the behavior of her familiars is also
confounding this could imply that she's
been at the hospital for a long time and
that everything that takes place within
the film is happening
inside of her delicate twisted mind if
they truly are manifestations of the
mind
then what chance would anyone really
have given these two possible scenarios
i would have to put your chances of
survival at approximately
0.0 percent assuming of course that
you've been stricken with the mark of
the beast
there is one other possibility worth
exploring since we don't know if the
prior presumptions are true
their only weakness seems to be light
however light only keeps them back
it doesn't make them go away completely
the light levels also seem to be mostly
under their control
in addition they seem to be fully
willing to attack in relatively normal
light level situations
assuming the eventual attack to be
inevitable should be noted that those
who ignored them were dragged off
never to be seen again but those who
fought back always found the creatures
they lashed out at to actually be
people perhaps the answer is to find the
proper balance accept the situation as
it is and try to go on with your life as
normally as possible
dealing with the situation of finding
yourself unexpectedly in limited light
situations
until confrontation is inevitable and
then just give your assailant a moderate
strength shoulder punch
you know something hard enough to get
the reveal that it's a person you're
punching but not hard enough to cause
any physical damage and get you in much
trouble perhaps in that way one could
technically beat the monsters although
it would relegate you
to youtube prank channel levels of
living a life spent annoying strangers
so you'd have to weigh the outcomes to
make the choice that works best for you
before we go i'd like to give a huge
thanks to my donors memorialized in the
hall of head shots
and as an fyi i have a website set up
where you can support the channel
through donations or
merch any donation unlocks uncensored
movie reviews of life force and under
the skin with others to be added over
time
if you enjoyed the video i'd love for
you to become a part of the channel by
subscribing
thanks for watching